[Speaker 1|1.0]
Good afternoon, everybody, and welcome to the third Thursday of the month, third Thursday of February2021. This is Dylan Minor, and I'm here with Igor Kouvayeev. Today we're going to talk to you guys a little bit about Rogis Machine Learning. Now, uh, like most of you guys, for the last it feels like maybe almost three quarters of a decade now, I've been going to conferences and I've been seeing these commercials, and everybody's talking about machine learning and about data analytics and AI. And I feel like uh some of the different companies when they're using these terms, they're using them to mean different things. And sometimes I don't even think that the way that they're using them is actually machine learning or AI. So Igor, to get us started off, could you just explain what is meant when we use the terms machine learning in

[Speaker 2|47.9]
AI? Uh that's great question, Dylan. Yes, so in very simple words, uh machine learning is when machines are learning from a certain experience, right? So They're learning from something that has happened already. And uh the best example of machine learning that we always use as a sort of reference case would be Facebook. How Facebook can uh you know build a machine learning system that can recognize photos. Why? Because Facebook has a huge experience, has a huge database that we helped Facebook to create. It's the database of our names and our faces and our age. Uh that what uh made Facebook Uh uh face recognition is so great, but it actually explains how generally machine learning works. Now, on the other hand, there is a very broadly used term AI, artificial intelligence, and machine learning is actually one of the ways how we can uh sort of achieve AI. And honestly speaking, the definition of AI is too broad. It's uh basically machines uh doing certain tasks by themselves, and there are lots of lots of definitions of that uh uh uh uh um of AI. So that's why we prefer to stick to machine learning because it gives us a very clear uh boundaries. I mean what exactly we're trying to achieve here. Oh deal

[Speaker 1|133.7]
you're on mute still on mute. Yeah. Yeah trick wasn't working for me. Uh I guess it's my own fault. Yeah that makes that makes things a lot clearer. Now with machine learning um as the as the machine itself is learning is is getting the results from its own algorithm and learning from it is that something that requires human interaction is it human independent or does whether humans are

[Speaker 2|157.1]
involved not matter at all it's quite i mean especially with the modern tools uh like python like all the libraries uh that were developed under python it's quite automated so i wouldn't say you just push a button and that's it but it's uh it's fairly easy to use even for like regular Georgia just now uh the question is data in order to achieve a good machine learning result you need a good out uh uh uh you need a good high quality input and a good output again coming back to Facebook case the reason why Facebook was successful is because they have a great input data set

[Speaker 1|194.3]
that makes sense okay I I think I think we're un we're clear on what the definition is going forward here. So uh if you'd like go ahead

[Speaker 2|201.0]
and start your presentation great great thanks Dylan so uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh yeah uh basically uh today we're gonna be able to to talk about uh machine learning and machine learning that uh we're getting a company we use in our technology basically uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh something uh that your some of you may be using already even sometimes not knowing it's a very important thing and uh before I start or actually my very first slide I would like to say why machine learning right why we want to use machine learning in our products why can't we just uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh use uh something uh much easier. And simpler and much more understandable. And uh most importantly, we don't use it because it's a buzzword. It we use it because in some tasks, and I will show you later on why exactly in those tasks we can use only machine learning. It's the only technology that helps us. So again, very simple explanation. Wh where you know for the tasks where we need machine learning and where where we don't need machine learning. So let's say to the very left, I have a very sort of simple black box. Perfectly black, color equals to zero, zero for programmers, it's black color. Uh both sides are exactly the same. So like uh absolutely perfect black box. So if we just say, you know, if color equals to zero, a equals to b, this object is black box. It's uh you know simple and easy for computers to understand. Now, in reality, when we're dealing with the black boxes, we're gonna be dealing with something like that. It's a picture of black box, somebody's called in it, it's not perfectly black. It's uh Not very well defined. So in those cases, we do need uh machine learning to actually uh uh uh uh for a computer to identify that it's it's a black box uh displayed on that picture. And the way again, very very very simplistically, the way machine learning works is exactly the same if then, but instead of just having one or two of them, we have millions or billions of those events, and some of those events are not really understandable for us because once we create that machine learning. System once we uh go through the learning procedure, it comes up with those if then they call decision tree. And if you just go there and try to, you know, from our human standpoint, from our logic, understand what's going on there, you won't be able to understand it. Nobody will be able to understand it, but it will work. And in in that particular scenario, most likely the first if then will be something like you know, if edges uh straight, and if uh majority of color is great, and then you know, million of other. But at the end of the day, it will allow us to identify that it's a black box on the picture with quite uh good quality. Again, assuming that we have a good training data set, uh, we trained uh our machine learning system, uh, and uh we were able to see the results, and we're sure that it's giving us a good result. A very good example of machine learning uh would be Google search. Uh Google search, believe it or not, is exactly the same if then statement. But if you just look at that formula that they're used, it's one gigabyte. So it's one gigabyte of events, billions of events. And when you type in, you know, your keywords in Google, you just go in through that formula. And as I said before, those uh events, those decision trees that are used by machine learning, they're quite fast. That's actually one of the advantages of machine learning assistance. So they're quite fast. So as you type your you know uh what you're searching for in Google. even though it's one gigabyte formula, it's already sort of giving you an answer uh because machine learning works fast. So with that definition, uh before I switch to the actual applications of machine learning, uh uh let me maybe s say a few words of sort of framework. So um what what what what what what what what what what what's our framework for Roger products how we implement the machine learning in our products. And I think that's critically important because as we go forward As we progress with those technologies, it's getting easier and easier to develop machine learning technologies. Literally almost every person these days with basic knowledge of Python can come up with machine learning model. And uh we see it happening in many operators and service companies already. A lot of different people from you know, actually not necessarily data scientists, just you know, very commonly regular geologists, drillers, uh reservoir engineers, they develop their own code. So they basically uh develop their code. And uh the biggest question is not whether there is a code, but whether you know how we can actually use that code, right? How we can deliver that code to real time operations and majority of our products, majority of R R R R R R R R R Roger products are used for real time operation, drilling, uh just hearing, uh production prediction for if we are talking about Star Trek. So how can we sort of uh merge both of these words? Uh, you know. People coding in most commonly Python and consumers of the product that would like to get the results in real time. And this is how we achieve that. We have uh the products that we are currently developing and using solar TM, Star Store, Star Trek. We have our cloud database. And uh majority of our code, much majority of our machine learning code that I will be talking today, uh that we're using, it's actually running under actually majority of that is developed uh under Python, not always, but Most of it. But it's running uh under the solar cloud. Why it needs to be run under the solar cloud is because uh we need a real time update. Drilling is a real time procedure. So as we get the new data, we need to make sure the results of that machine learning is delivered in real time to all the consumers of uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh the final product. Uh so with that, um it's probably a little bit boring slide, but if we're talking about a particular machine learning technologies that we're going to be talking about today and uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh where we are using those. So today we'll be covering uh AG uh AG actually stands for assisted gesteering uh the tool that helps us to uh uh gesteer the laterals uh that we are constantly developing and improving. Uh I guess we're gonna have uh um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um a good chunk of discussion uh uh about AG uh solo box data filtration for both of these technologies Um the technology for both of these uh applications, what we're actually using is something called neural network. It's also a sort of machine learning technology. Uh then uh RTM uh status definition, drilling status definition, and key performance indicators, RTM projection to the bead. For that we use something called boosting. And uh the last one, Starfrack, we use actually a wide range of technologies, uh, even though there are lots of uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh sort of strangely looking words there. It's it's all uh decided for you. So I'll show you how you how it works. We'll go through that live. And you'll see that actually it's it's a very uh neat and nice tool that sort of does machine learning uh as you work in in in Starfrex. Now the very first one that we want to discuss today would be assisted just steering how do we use machine learning now just Now, uh sort of disclaimer here, we uh as I mentioned before, we don't use machine learning because it's a buzzword. We use it only uh in those applications where we think it's beneficial, where it can make things better, faster, and more user friendly. In uh SysdGest Theorien, we use a lot of uh I would say uh regular procedures, if we call if you can call them that way. different you know lock to lock correlations uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh fairly you know standard mathematical procedures but where we found uh uh uh machine learning particularly useful is actually vertical uh portion vertical well log correlation we call it uh assisted gestering in the vertical part of the well why uh we think uh machine learning is uh the best um the best technology there uh Because and actually I'll go I'm going to repeat it throughout the rest of the presentation many times, is because our data, unfortunately, our geoscience data is bad. It's uh noisy, it has a bunch of data quality issues, it's not perfect. Um, and uh actually, if you kind of go back in time, so the task again, the task that we're trying to solve here is actually quite simple, it's vertical wildlock correlation. So we're just trying to say okay, if there is a Geological formation top here. As an interpreter, as a human interpreter, I am correlating this gamma to that gamma. So the same geological formation top will be here. So the first I was actually looking in the in the literature before this webinar, and the first uh paper, the pioneering paper on that technology, believe it or not, was published in uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh1964. Um, so kind of forever ago, and uh Basically go through you know very basic, well, maybe you're not very basic, but some technologies uh how you can automatically correlate two vertical wells with each other, how you can identify the tops. Very good and comprehensive paper. Now there is a paper actually uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh that showing the technology for uh uh uh well law correlation that most of the packages that I've seen on the market are using as of today. And again, it's not super new, it's uh1987. And actually that's uh we use something very similar to that technology, with the actually the biggest difference is in order to correlate to layer well wells, instead of just using standard mathematical formulas, we use we use machine learning. Uh and again, the reason why both of these approaches didn't work for us, or actually they kind of worked initially we used it, but then as we looked at our data, and uh our actually our biggest problem is that we're dealing with real-time data. All of us who just hear the wow in in our sort of life, we we we all know that uh real time data is much worse than data from the memory. It has noise, it has a bunch of issues. So we identified or we found with experience that those two approaches and these19 uh eighty seven approach didn't actually work with noisy data. Uh and uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh what are the typical issues of our real-time data? So first of all is uh actually The the worst one is NWD2 change when suddenly uh the scale increases by a substantial uh value or multiplyer. And uh this is a big deal because I mean there is no way or no good logical way how we can explain to computer you know why this is not a geology change, why it's it's something you know totally related to uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh the tools or actually the the procedure of the drip. And if you think that's hard, you should try to

[Speaker 1|902.6]
explain to a directional driller that we need him to log the up the last twenty feet again so that we can uh make a one to one correlation uh to get those logs to line up. Uh that's not easy. Right. Right.

[Speaker 2|914.5]
You need you need to uh you know explain why you need to waste the time on that re log procedure. Now we have noise, which is fairly you know, easy and good thing to deal with. We also have our magnificent Joe which is so Georgia can vary from here to here, which also creates a lot of issues for uh just standard procedures when mathematically we are just comparing two logs with each other. And on top of that, uh it's mostly our you know just hearing problem, but for high inclination angles, uh for inclination I would say generally above60 degrees or you know of course depending on our geologian area, we have uh thickness differences. Also these type of uh problems are not good for for the approaches that were developed back in you know sixties seventies eighties. Now so in order to solve all of that we came up with this uh methodology and uh if you actually run uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh assisted gestering and if you don't have it uh talk to us we can give you a trial of course uh if you run assisted gestering on your wells you will see that uh in the vertical portion of the wells if you if you uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh pick those tops even with very noisy data even with poor looking well even with the data where you know sometimes people struggle it works very good i mean we're really proud of what we achieved with that technology but how we actually developed it so remember at the previous portion of the uh previous part previous slides I said that in order to come up with machine learning we need to train it first right so we actually uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh need a training data set and in this case actually training data set is something easy to get Uh we were again in simple words, what we're doing, we were just taking a log, or actually a series of the logs, and we were corrupting that data. So we are adding the noise, uh, adding different uh game array uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh scale changes, uh stretching and squeezing the game array, just basically you know uh corrupting the data as much as we could. And then we uh were using these two data sets as as a training uh as a training pairs, right? So we basically said that hey guys, this stop or this position this geography is the same as this geography. So and we were training neural network network using using that data set. And uh the the result of the training uh works in a way that now we can send two pieces of the log to the neural network and the neural network will tell us okay it's it's a good match between those two pieces of the log or it's a bad one. And here is how we display We basically send say log from the type well, send the log from the vertical, uh from the lateral well, and then it goes kind of you know log piece by log piece and compare it with all the log pieces from from the other well. And if it's a good correlation, it shows us red color. It's not something you can see in star steer, of course, but it's sort of how the algorithm works. If it's a good correlation, it shows you the red color, if it's a bad correlation, it shows you blue color. So it's sort of similar to that image produced by uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh shown in this paper uh in1986. The biggest difference is in order to come up with those colors we use machine learning we are not using any mathematical formula anymore and as I said it works quite well and you can you can test it in stars tier uh with the CCGS theory right now. So now uh actually going forward it's not something that we have uh in stars tier but uh so Uh what I said before, also the beauty of all the machine learning technologies is that they work fast. So our well to well, vertical well to well correlation that we develop as a part of our systems theory is super fast. We're talking about, you know, maybe less than a couple of seconds uh to pro to process a well, which is much faster than any other well of correlation that I've seen in in my career before. Uh and probably we can make it even faster. So once we developed it, we actually thought that's the way it's a very important Hey, now as we have these great well to well to well correlation, why can't we just uh have it in the vertical track? It's not available in StarS year yet, but it's coming. So we believe in um in in the upcoming future, which is coming soon, you will have you will have an option to quickly and automatically correlate the vertical wall logs of uh vertical wells, uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh pick the tops on the vertical wells automatically. So that's uh s sort of assisted geos theory and how we use uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh machine learning in assisted geos

[Speaker 1|1206.4]
theory. Now, Igor, you you you know this is coming. This is something that I've been uh hoping for since this assisted geo steering idea first came up. So as in an old ops geo, an old geosterior here, one of one of the big things that we run into in areas where faults actually exists uh at the sub seismic level is trying to identify them. Uh currently the way that at least I always did it in my I think most geosterers do it in their career, is that you uh you're looking at your data set, being aware that there's a possibility of faults. Uh, but you often can't see it immediately. You can't, at least you can't see it in the gamma, and you're only necessarily only really aware of it a little bit later, later on when all of a sudden your correlation has you in a position where you you you you you you you you you you you didn't think that you were. At that point, then we go back and we start looking at all the drilling parameters and trying to find a spot where we may have crossed that fault. And of course, there's always the old joke about the geoskeers fault. That is actually just that there may have been some incorrect geos steering previously, and uh that there was a fault thrown in there. So is there any way that we could use any of these machine learning techniques uh to to help kind of uh either whether it's AGU star steer or something else to be able to pick where those faults happen in real time? See that as a possibility?

[Speaker 2|1281.0]
I think Dylan, that's a great question. And uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh what's specifically good that you actually describe the procedure of how you as a human. right identify those faults as you gesture the lateral what is uh what is important in your description is that you're not you're not only looking at the gamma as a you know experience gesture right you're looking uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh at actually many things you're looking at the nearby walls you're looking at uh drilling data you're looking at possibly seismic data or structural maps so it's a it's a complex uh data analysis that you do as a human in order to come up with those faults. Uh possibly, I mean there is a good chance that if you have only that particular lateral with only gamma not knowing where is it geographically in which particular area of the world you're working with right now, uh you would not be able to identify those faults or you would be much you know worse at identification of at that fault identify identification. And that's actually the problem the A G problem that we're getting at right now. Because AG even though it actually works good and in the upcoming release of Star Steer in a month, uh I think it will be amazingly good. I strongly recommend you guys to try it. But uh that's actually exactly the problem we're dealing with right now, because everything a G knows is the survey and the lock. And actually it's only one log, uh Gamera lock and the typo of course. So uh it's and as any technology it's as good as the data you have. as an input uh and here we're sort of going into uh more uh into the mean of another buzzword that people like to use these days is big data because in order to uh as we think in order to be able to identify faults and actually teach a g to uh be very good at that fault identification we need to go into the big data world right so we need uh for e g to know the geographical position of the well bore uh neighboring wells drilling data some neighboring wells drilling statistics uh so is it is it possible yes and I think eventually we'll be there but uh we need much more data and we need much more learning

[Speaker 1|1432.3]
I per I personally will be very very excited when we get there um I think that will solve a lot of uh the mysteries and and you know as a You're like you sometimes, especially now with remote juice during becoming more and more popular, you're already looking at two to three wells, maybe more at the same time. So to be able to at the same time be watching every one of those drilling parameters and looking for that combination of drilling parameters that might indicate a fault before you recognize it in uh your gamma correlation, I think that would be really powerful to be able to respond to it hundreds or thousands of feet earlier than we already had. So I I guess you know my vote on where our development efforts should be should be uh focused. going forward. Uh but anyway, thanks for the answer

[Speaker 2|1472.4]
on that one, Igor. Absolutely, I I totally agree with you, Dylan. I mean as much as we can we need to help JSTRs to um uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh to to to to to to to to to to to identify all kinds of gestures left drilling problems in real time that's that's the whole goal of our development um now the next technology that we'll be talking about uh it's uh it's fairly uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh quick one and actually interestingly enough very much related to the previous one that we discussed. So uh as we all know uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh actually let me start from a different angle we all want data in real time we all want to get uh service and logs specifically in real time as the data is acquired um by the tool and post up to the surface now the common problem that we're dealing with as as if you connect to if we connect to with ML server typically the data that we see there is Uh honestly speaking doesn't look very good, let's say politely. So then we are you know either looking at the data uh and just patiently waiting for MWED person to send us the filter data. And if you talk to MWED person, most likely he or she is just sitting at the rig and just manually filtering the data. Uh there is no good procedure uh to get a nice and filtered data in real time. Uh the reason is because the filtration. Is not uh filtration of that under WD data is not a very good and linear process and not um not something that you can use, not something you can code with uh simple mathematic formulas. Why? Uh it's basically shown on on these examples. So I I just took a random um real time log. Um I believe it's it's log from Pyramid, but I guess it doesn't really matter. And if you zoom in on those logs, you can see a bunch of funny. problems. So there is a fake interpolation, for example, between the samples, which of course is not right. And actually that's a big problem because filters they can't recognize it, uh standard filters that um you know people use these days. Also there is a very typical um you know MWD noise when uh just you know what is coming from MWED is uh just some spikes of a standard uh gamma value we'll also have some MWD spikes here and actually maybe two or three additional types of noises. And we all know or at least those of you that use Star Steer know that we have uh you know nice spike in averaging filters in Star Steer that we can use. It helps us to get real time it helps us to uh better work with that real time data because they I would say filter90% of the problems. But uh in reality uh I need to say honestly here there are some types of uh data issues that those filters cannot handle or not handling very well. For example, see these uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh constant uh interpolation that you know filters don't understand those uh spikes here series of spikes that are too hard for filters to filtrate and you know again a couple of others so that's why we actually uh using uh it's not released yet but it's it's coming as a part of RTM feed but we'll be using uh machine learning to uh automatically filter out all of those uh problems all all of those real time data problems and again the way it works the same way as the previous idea we have our initial data and of course we're gonna take you know nicer looking at good data we're gonna make sort of bad data out of it and we're gonna use uh those two data sets to uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh to learn uh as as as as as as as as as as as a learning data. And with that we'll be able to to filter the data on the fly, real time, and uh something that you'll be able to use and it will be much better than our regular uh you know standard with ML outputs. So the next one, the next uh technology uh I would like to talk about, it's actually quite interesting one, is uh RTM uh RIC status definition. And uh some of you may see in our real-time monitoring RTM uh that is you know available as a commercial product already. Uh it has lots and lots of features, but really uh what is our real-time monitoring? It's why we have real-time monitoring. We have it for real-time drilling optimization. In order to optimize something, the first thing that we need to know is actually what is happening out there. So the first sort of cornerstone of Is to be able to identify and understand what is the drilling status, what my rig is doing right now, what my rig was doing uh you know10 minutes ago, uh what what what what what what what what what what what kind of procedures and steps my rig uh was performing over the last say24 hours or day versus night. And uh this is the visual of it. It's basically what you will see or what you're uh what you're looking at when you're using RTM is uh you know uh your uh rig. uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh we call it rig status but basically what your what your your your your your your your your your your RIC was doing over the last so it's a day shift versus night shift and all of those colors they uh correspond to different types of drilling activities then you also have uh key performance indicators you know what kind of in sleep time you had and uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh many other ones and um um um um um um um um um um um the only input that goes into that system is uh so called uh surface uh rig channel. Right, it's uh different sensors uh that are located on the rig and recording uh information what my rig is doing. And uh the problem that we are solving uh or solved with machine learning is how we can uh convert those uh input channels, rig channels, and here is the list of all the things we have at the rig side, or all the sensors we have at the rig side, how we can convert those channels into these so-called rig statuses and Here are the rig statuses that we can identify. And again, in the perfect world, coming back to that example of you know well law correlation that was invented back in the60s. Yes, in a perfect world, we can use something that is called binary logic, which basically a good example of binary logic is displayed here in the right bottom corner. If bit depth is higher than bit depth, you know, say a few seconds ago, and uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh bit. depth equals to whole depths if flow release flow rate is lower than uh minimal flow rate rpm higher than minimum rpms then currently then my rec is drilling you can pretty much define those type of uh excuse me those type of events for any status and uh in the perfect world for perfect data it will work um of course uh it doesn't work all the time uh we are Our data has all kinds of issues. First of all, is data quality and noise, uh, sort of uh blank spaces in the data, uh, no data values. Uh the biggest problem for us as a sort of international company, we have a lot of wells in you know permanent basin say in Argentina, where everything is meters and totally different units is uh different units and thresholds. Um another thing I'll I'll talk about that a bit later, drew pipe oscillation. And in SLIP status. So all those issues as well as a few other ones made us to develop machine learning status identification instead of just using the binary logic. And to my knowledge, we are the first company that are using machine learning for those re status identification. Here are some of the typical issues that we encounter again, why we cannot use just a uh uh uh uh standard uh if then statements here is for example this is how it's real data how my hook load is behaving. It's honestly speaking it's a nightmare because now we're trying to from this data uh we are trying to understand when uh my you know hook was loaded when it wasn't loaded basically yes or no but you see even my zero is uh is is is is is is is is is is not always zero value so there is a so called you know uh different threshold as Draw the well, and of course, you know, the cook load is different, uh, it depends on the depths of the well, depends on many other things. So we need to take into account we don't live in the perfect world. Same happens with actually many other things, but surface RPM is not an easy thing to deal with. Here is a uh histogram of surface uh RPM from a real well, uh, and you can see that we cannot just say that you know, hey, my surface RPM has to be zero, because zero is actually. quite wide range of numbers here. It can be up to two. But of course, you know, if it's such a low surface RPM, most likely it's it's actually technically zero. So pure pure binary logic is is not a solution, unfortunately. So it seems to

[Speaker 1|2056.2]
me what you're saying is that if uh in a perfect world with perfect data, um binary logic would be sufficient. But in the operational world we have to deal with with the imperfections of the data set. And that's where the machine

[Speaker 2|2075.9]
Absolutely. Or I mean potentially we could use a binary logic, Dylan, but then we will have to, you know, put you in front of the computer and constantly uh you know set those uh thresholds for uh every particular parameter and uh tune them as we drew the lateral. Yes, I don't think you'll be happy with that. Um another actually big thing for Our uh rig status and uh identification is DrewPipe oscillation. For those of you who are familiar with modern uh drilling uh process, uh now when we're sliding, we are no longer just keeping uh two phase constant, we actually oscillate drill pipe to reduce friction, increase the um um um um um um um um um um um uh drilling efficiency and just improve a lot of other things. From rig status identification, it's a nightmare because instead of just saying, hey, if RPM. Is zero, then uh it's a sliding. Uh we have you know this uh sort of rattling behavior uh that looks like noise. Again, a perfect task for uh machine learning and nightmare task for uh binary logic. Uh another one, uh I mean it will be quick here, but it's basically how we can identify and slip status. Um don't want to talk a lot about it, but in simple words, uh there is No good binary logic definition for N slip status. It's too too complicated, uh too uh too sophisticated to identify uh perfect perfect task for machine learning and we use machine learning for that. Um so yeah, that's that's about RTM Rick status. So that's technology that works already, has been implemented if you use uh RTM. Um you can see those rig status, and those rig status are calculated. Uh Using machine learning. Another technology that I wanted to uh to talk about today uh before I switch to Starfrack, uh it's only one slide. It's quite exciting. I think a lot of companies are working on that. We are also working on that. Uh not available yet, but will be available. Uh have some uh positive uh results. Uh we we we we we we we we we think will uh roll it out quite soon. Uh It's basically as a GSTer. Yes, I do have my survey data. And if you're using star steel, you know that in star steel you can uh calculate your projection to the beat based on number number of different parameters, but in reality, what we want is to have my projection to the beat, my beat position in real time. And that beat position should take into account uh my uh rotary trend, my motor yield. Uh, and unfortunately, both of those parameters. Are quite variable along the well board. They vary in time because of the gateware, because of other things, they vary with geology. They uh depend on many, many other factors. So what we want to achieve here is a technology that uh of course will never you know ask you any silly questions or uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh won't require any human input, but basically it will take real-time drilling data, of course. if you're using uh RTM if you are streaming your real time uh drilling channels into uh solar rtm it will take that data will automatically of course uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh split uh the well into different statuses because we need to know where the well was sliding where the well was rotating and based on that information come up with the uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh most likely we're gonna use we're gonna use boosting but we'll see a boosting model uh that will be able to To predict or actually calculate first rotary trend and motor yield, and based on those two parameters, uh calculate uh projection to the beat in real time. Because uh I think we're sort of in ideal position here, uh since Solo has both drilling data and the geological data from the from the GST results. So we can merge both of these data sets to come up with uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh the most reliable uh projection to the beat information. That looks amazing.

[Speaker 1|2342.2]
That's amazing right there. You you said that we expect to be able to have something like that for people to see some point this year.

[Speaker 2|2350.2]
Yes, yes. This is this is this will happen this year. Okay. Uh we we we we we we we we we already have some, you know, it's it's we're sort of on the second slide of my presentation where we have a python code. Now the question is how we can transition it from Python code on, you know, sort of Dylan's computer into something that everybody can use. real time right yeah um now the last thing that I actually wanted to show you live because I think it's quite exciting technology is uh is our uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh magnificent Starfrack and it won't be any sort of long Starfrack demo I would like to focus on specifically machine learning technologies that we use in Starfrack and why again why we use them. And um for those of you who don't know Starfrack is the tool to uh It's a multi well anal anal anal analytical tool that allows you to first of all uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh combine and put together uh your statistics for each particular well. Actually, first of all, for each particular stage, completion stage, then it's going to the well level. We have uh statistics per well, and then we correlate that statistics to production and come up with useful trends uh to optimize your first of all to predict your uh production and optimize your development your field development and this is a very uh uh common problem that we are you know as as as an industry uh working with unconventionals uh dealing with these days. We uh we have a lot of wells for each of those wells we have lots and lots of parameters you know of course it's much more than I have it on my slide but yeah if we want to simplify it it's uh well length total proper total fluid stage and cluster spacing porosity or any geological parameter spacing timing. And uh then we have a production that's actually essentially an outcome of all of those parameters, right? Because uh we know how much they will produce say in a year or in two years or what's the UR number. And there are a bunch of tools that you can even use right now as long as you have the spreadsheet generated, which you know if you do it manually takes a lot of time in Starfrex it's pretty much one button click or even no clicks. There are a lot of tools they can, you know Build a machine learning model that will predict your production. So then if you know what's uh all of these parameters for upcoming well, you can uh come up with production uh production failure. What is different about Starfrack is actually uh we were able to sort of surpass the biggest limitation of all of these machine learning systems, and the biggest limitation is a backward connection. What's the back connection? Um if we just uh if we explain it in simple words. You know, uh Facebook can uh uh give you the name from a picture, but uh if you type in the name, it cannot uh give you the uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh you know a computer generated picture of that person. It will be able to g g g g g g g g g give you only the picture uh that was taken by that person, but it won't be able to give you a brand new picture of that person. So it doesn't work backwards, and this is actually the biggest problem of all of those uh machine learning uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh prediction systems uh uh which is uh very uh very very very very very critical and very important for uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh that production prediction because yes, as long as we know that I'm going to drill a well with certain length, certain problems, certain fluid, it can give me the expected production value, but it cannot tell me what's the best well that I can drill uh in certain area. And today I will show you how uh machine learning uh how it helps us to sort of uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh surpass that limitation how we are solving that limitation as far as uh particular technologies that we're using in Starfrex here is the list um um um um um um um um um um um if you don't mind I don't want to read through it but we are using a different type of uh techniques and uh I'll show it to you in a second uh it actually doesn't ask you which one you would like to use it simply you know runs it and uh automatically not not As far as training models, you know, and for all the you know technologies that uh I showed you before, I explained you how our training model works. Uh in Starfrex, we use the actual data. So in order for you know Starfrac to work, we need at least I would say50, I would recommend at least100 wells loaded. So as long as you have100 wells and you have say production for those hundred wells, then as a training. Training it takes80% of those wells, predict production from them, and then verify that prediction on the remaining20%. Then as a next step, it again takes80% uh for the training and another20 as a sort of uh testing data set, but that20 will be uh different from the previous20, and then it goes five times. So at the end of the training procedure, we have five. machine learning models that were trained using different data sets and tested using different data sets. And then we merge all those five machine learning models together to come up with the best and the most reliable result. With that let me switch to Starfrack and actually show you how it happens live. So if we just let me hide So if we just looked at uh the main window of Starfrac, we have uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh our wells loaded. This is fairly small project, it's a public data uh which has actually a lot of limitations that we don't like, but it's a public Canadian data. Uh thanks for Canada, at least for sharing the data. And for these wells, we have all the completion information, and of course we have JSTRN data, we have uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh we have uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh those. Wells are located on solo. So once those wells were just here, we can just open Starfrac and see them as is. So we don't need to do any additional action. So again, what Starfrac can do, it can automatically extract all of those parameters per well. So each of those wells, even though they named a little bit weirdly, we rename them in order to you know not to confuse operators. But they have uh all of those parameters which are just extracted totally automatically from solo database, like total uh number of stages, total proponent, fluid. Completed length,12 months uh something we loaded from production data,12 months production per while. And uh we also because we have uh just hearing data and we have type wells, we were able to extract again automatically extract the porosity, average porosity within the completed volume, right? So we have that we call it a geological variable, but in reality it's my porosity uh of completed rock, which is quite low for this particular formation. Why it's important? Because this is actually our uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh just steering parameter because if I'm not saying not very good just here, I won't be able to stay within the zone, my overall porosity will be lower. Uh if I'm better at just hearing, uh I'm100% in zone, my average porosity is higher, and as we go forward, I will show you whether it you know uh makes sense or it doesn't make any sense to to stay in those higher porosities. We can actually uh quantify the result of our just hearing using uh this uh machine learning approach. So um what I'm actually doing in Starfrack uh and this is something I pretty much will show you live right now is basically we we we we we we we we we we we uh tell star frack which parameters I want to use to uh uh uh uh as as as as as as as as as as as my production driver. So what what what what what what what what what what what are the parameters that can potentially predict my production and the most common ones would be stage spacing, fluid concentration, proper concentration. So this one, sorry for the naming, this is actually our average porosity, and completed length. So those parameters as we think are the best ones where the but uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh why they are the best ones because they each of them correspond to a specific um uh thing and they most of them they don't correlate with each other and And as a target variable, I have my12 month production here. Now, when I uh push uh this uh button uh build model right now, basically what it will do, it will build those five machine learning models. It will first of all automatically select the algorithm for uh machine learning, build those five machine learning models, and come up with the average ones. And what is uh as you can see, it works quite fast. Yeah, it's actually it's done already. And in addition to it, what is actually something you know uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh um very new to Starfrack and something that allows us to do that uh backward connection, also generates uh half a million of code pseudo wells. So it's every possible each possible well that we can potentially drill in this area. Uh we also use a sort of emission learning technology to generate those pseudo wells, but um Uh basically why it's important is because now for every possible well that will ever drill in this area, uh we can find out the uh production results, and uh we can examine all kinds of relationships between geography, completion, so well lengths, uh and production. Um and now uh let me switch to uh unfortunately my uh Are under these bar here. Let me move it a little bit. Now let me switch to this cross plot here. So what it's showing to us is basically the quality of our prediction. This is my actual12 month production, and the one to the left is uh what machine learning model predicted for me. You can see that the quality is quite good. Uh and uh one of the reasons is because uh it's uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh good machine learning models and uh actually the data sets uh uh even though it's public it's quite good it's Canada quite good and high quality data. What actually we're missing here and uh if any of you would like to uh provide us that data that would be totally awesome but what we're missing here is uh is a good data set on uh cluster spacing as well as uh well spacing unfortunately it's fairly old Canadian wells back then they didn't have spacing that is tight enough to actually see the well to well interference. But those two parameters honestly speaking they're really missing. But um anyway we have geography, we have uh completions information, we have well length information. Um probably the last one the last cross plot I want to show you before we'll start examining the actual results of that uh machine learning modeling would be uh the reason why uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh we can adjust just use any sort of simple linear models. So this is a correlation between my completed lengths and total propent. Two most valuable two most influential parameters. The longer the lateral, the more propellant we pump, the more the the the the the the the the the the the bigger production we're gonna get. I mean yes it's all logical but as we can see the correlation is quite weak. The reasons is because all of those wells were just here differently those wells they were uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh they have different uh fluid loading they have uh they had different uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh geology different average porosity uh they had different uh stage spacing so because of that that correlation is not good and cannot be used for any kind of prediction. Now let's go to uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh actual uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh production prediction and uh examining the results of that uh machine learning model so what is happening here uh I'm plotting a heat map of my completed length versus proper concentration so the two most uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh influential parameters and the color here is uh uh the color here is my uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh12 month production for a while and as you can see uh I have a lot and lot of uh sort of rectangles here uh each of them corresponds to a specific Complete length and uh proper concentration. On top of that, I have these uh bars to filter my data to a specific say porosity. So what I can say is yes, for this specific completed length and this specific property concentration, say right here, my12 months production is gonna be uh9,000 or actually almost10,000. But let me narrow down my porosity to sort of this uh Say only let me take only uh wells with very high porosity, and uh it will it will show me the prediction for those wells of high porosity. The beauty of this technology is that we may uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh we still can see that interpolation here, even though it could be maybe only like two or three wells drilled with that porosity, but because we have lots and lots of those pseudo wells generated, we basically modeled all possible scenarios. We modeled all possible wells that could have been drilled uh in in in in in in in in in in in this area so now we can pretty much play with all of those parameters and see how each of them influences the production as for me

[Speaker 1|3221.5]
actually yeah one question here i was just thinking so that uh one one one one one one one one one one of the one of the prime drivers that we're using here is that that that that that that that that that that that synthetic data um from type well frack one to get that porosity but if there's a situation where you say you had a quad combo that have been running the data from the heel, but you had something else by the toe. Would you just run the model twice, or is there any way to interpolate between the models? How would something like that work? Uh I was thinking about

[Speaker 2|3250.7]
the case when we have uh quad combo in the lateral. No, no, uh it's

[Speaker 1|3254.9]
if let's say I have two typewells. I have a heel type well and I have a toe typewell.

[Speaker 2|3259.1]
Potentially yes, you can uh run uh porosity prediction based on each of those typewells and average them out or average them weight them by distance. Uh uh potentially that's uh something possible but as a first uh sort of as a first approach I would always just recommend to run it of the typo that we use for the JSTERN to see if we have any type of correlation. And that would be you know the first thing to do if it makes sense. Yeah yeah it does okay so again now we're examining just uh possibly the most common and simple type of correlation completed lengths. versus proper concentration. Now let's see for example whether uh fluid concentration or stage spacing uh influences uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh influences my production performance I mean it's quite logical space uh stage spacing the uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh the the shorter the spacing the better the production the longer the lateral the better the production and here you can actually see what is better right so for example for the stage spacing your production is gonna be72 uh thousands uh twelve production for these stage spacing it's95. So you can quantify what would be the results of making your stage spacing more narrow. Should you know or if you know the economics you can actually can come up with the best economical scenario right is uh what would be your uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh maximum economic uh uh uh uh the the most economic well for this particular area uh same with fluid concentration right we can see that uh we definitely can see here Uh that the more fluid we pump, uh the better the well is. Even though the so say for each of that uh bar my property concentration stays um constant, uh but my uh fluid concentration increases and uh production performance is getting better. Uh we can always you know filter down uh you know filter down to certain porosity levels because say in a certain area we expect lower porosities, uh we can see what kind of fluid concentration. uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh what kind of fluid concentration we're gonna have here. And the very last one is actually my favorite is whether you know the gesturier matters. You know whether does it really matter if we uh just here the lateral in the zone or out of the zone. Is there a correlation between uh geography and production? Luckily yes it is uh here again we have our property concentration increasing to the right and uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh porosity increasing from uh top to the bottom. And as we can see with the same property correlation, you know, for each of these bars, as we go down, our production is increasing, and we can actually see by how much it is increasing, right? What specific value of my of the quality of my gesturium in barrels. Uh, and of course, if we have the oil price, we can convert it to something more meaningful than barrels. Uh, for example, you know, for this uh type of porosity, uh, our production is uh 63, twelve months production for these type of porosity, it's90,94, uh94,95, actually.

[Speaker 1|3457.0]
Yeah, I could even see this being being useful. Uh because one of the the topics of conversation is what is an appropriate appropriate size of zone. Do we like do we need to stay within10 feet? Do we need to stay within20 feet,30 feet? It seems like this would be able to help us pick out what the appropriate drilling zone should be.

[Speaker 2|3478.1]
And uh there are Again, uh what we're showing here, so this particular heat map uh is a result of uh us uh uh applying machine learning to extract uh the uh information from the data. Uh we won't be able to uh show any kind of uh heat maps like that if we just you know use a regular cross plots or regular data sets, simply because uh in most of the cases we don't have enough wells drilled, or we don't have enough wells drilled within this porosity. We Uh and actually by the time when we have an update, it's probably already too late. So we could build to these type of relationships, uh these you know half million of pseudo pseudo wells using I believe it's sixty to seventy uh maybe sixty five uh wells that were drilled in that particular Canadian plane. Of course, the more data we have, the better it is, the more accurate more machine learning is, machine learning model is. But as far as machine learning uh uh uh as a tool to find meaningful uh, relationships from the data and then being able to interpolate those and create those pseudo wells so we can examine the results. I mean it's it's a perfect tool uh that uh we are using right now

[Speaker 1|3552.7]
so uh another thing that comes to mind and and we've talked about it a little bit before uh one of the big buzzwords um that that outside of the ones we already talked about is parent child effect. Um and you know obviously a lot of that is is is is is is is is is is is a result of of spacing. But I I've always kind of had a uh a suspicion that some of that parent child effect is due to uh legacy wells that were drilled maybe before geosteering techniques were as good as they are now. Uh back when people thought drilling by seismic alone was actually an appropriate technique, or that their the formation was so big it didn't matter where they were. Uh, and of course, there's also just sometimes the the the you know, like the best geosteer in the world can still sometimes still be wrong about where you are. U using this technology, and I was thinking maybe. on on some of those scatter plots that you showed. Um I wonder if we could look at a data set and then just based on production be able to filter back and be able to say all right this well right here doesn't match up. Let's go look at it. What was wrong with it and and look at the geo stream. What what do you think

[Speaker 2|3615.3]
there? Dylan, I have a dream to have that data set and actually show or actually prove or disprove uh what you just said. The only way to prove or disprove it would be statistics, right? To get uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh gesterian data to get uh completion data to get frag data uh frag heat data all in one place and then build those plots as long as we have you know20,3040 or60 while50 wells with uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh frag heats I'm quite sure we'll be able to answer that question. And uh there are actually much more questions that I would like to answer. Uh one of the concerning one would be, you know. uh the never ending discussion on um um um um um um um um um um uh uh engineered completions uh for example if if if if if if if if if if whether we uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh track our wells in a specific uh zones or porosity or places, or we just do it geometrically. Does it does it influence the the production results? This would be the perfect uh technology uh to answer that because yes, according to service companies presentation, all of those wells are always better, but is it Better in reality, is it better statistically? And uh if it's better by how much it's better, what's the value of the

[Speaker 1|3695.4]
technology? Very interesting.

[Speaker 2|3703.2]
So yeah, that's uh actually the last uh machine learning machine learning technology that we wanted to to demonstrate to you today. We keep developing new ones, uh not for the sake of development, but because, as I said, because we uh we we we we we we we we we we find them uh valuable uh faster and Better for many different applications. If you have any uh ideas or data you would like to share with us, you're more than welcome. We are always happy to discuss. Absolutely.

[Speaker 1|3731.1]
Does anybody have any questions? If you do, go ahead and put them into the chat uh or into the QA. We can see either one of them, uh, preferably the QA, really. And I'll go ahead and read them out and get Igor's opinion on them. Uh questions about things that we went over here, even ideas uh that are in line with the the topic of the discussion.

[Speaker 2|3750.3]
Maybe deal with your opinion as well. Yeah,

[Speaker 1|3753.6]
maybe. So uh Rafi actually asks uh this projection to bit um will be will it be able to help to predict the inclination and azimuth results after each slide. He means based in the drilling parameters during the sliding procedure. So like once again, like basically looking at the toolface, we'll be able to predict the

[Speaker 2|3773.3]
yield of that slide. That's exactly the purpose, yes. Of course from the directional drill. driller standpoint, that's exactly what it's doing. Uh my explanation was mostly towards the geologist and GSTers. For them the most meaningful information is just where is my bit and which particular part of the reservoir is my bit, right? Right. And

[Speaker 1|3796.6]
would that data then uh pump over to star steer to be used for correlation

[Speaker 2|3800.6]
ahead of the course. That's the whole purpose.

[Speaker 1|3804.2]
Yes. Uh a question I I and I I'll need a little bit more clarification here from Chao Shun, uh, he says, first of all, can we share the recording of this email? I wonder if he's sharing means the recording of this video. Um and that this video, yeah, okay, the video will be on our knowledge base. Uh so all of our clients will have access to it. Um, and then there'll be a prompt, maybe some discussion offline about whether this is going to be shared on YouTube publicly. Uh, that is yet to be determined, but it will definitely be on our knowledge base, so all clients will be able to see it. Other questions about the product. the technology, the ideas. Dave Baker, I know you're out there and I know you got questions or comments at least. See here. Well uh we may not you know how it is uh especially with all with the weather stuff that we're experiencing here in the United States um we may not we may not get the questions and look like we did go a little bit over here um but I'll I'll give them a couple more minutes but in the meantime Igor I appreciate you joining the uh the the third Thursday team here to to come in and share some of your technical expertise On a topic that's really it's at the front line of everything that we're doing in operations these days. Always

[Speaker 2|3876.6]
happy to. Yes, sir. Hope everybody enjoyed it.

[Speaker 1|3880.5]
Uh here's a slide from Mr. Baker. Uh he says, can you tell slide or rotate? Um are you are you talking about with our could you elaborate a little bit, Dave?

[Speaker 2|3896.6]
I wonder if it's about this. One

[Speaker 1|3904.1]
of the things that we're going to do I'm I'm guessing it is because that's right up here. Yeah, he's talking about ring state. Yeah. Yes,

[Speaker 2|3911.4]
David. Drillers they use so called drill pipe oscillation, right? It's when instead of just keeping the constant toolphase, they're rocking the pipe. This is uh, is the hardest uh drilling status for identification because instead of just constant uh zero rpm or something close to zero you have rpm that is just constantly you know uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh going up and down so that's where we use yeah answer to your question uh question yes we can and we use uh machine learning to identify it

[Speaker 1|3956.9]
yeah uh is always good for a good question gotta be killing you that uh that uh the audience is muted here but certainly we could probably set up a time when when when when when when when when when when when we when you and igor could could could could could could could could could could could have a conversation maybe once once the world goes back to normal you may be even to lunch or something uh we have a question from erin jackson uh he asked are you gonna be able to apply that machine learning or any machine learning algorithms to imported seismic data all right big question star size

[Speaker 2|3985.0]
here we go yeah yeah yeah it's like uh yeah the the the question about humanity Yeah. Can we? Yes, we can. The the problem is that we don't have uh support of seismic in any of our products yet. Having said that, we are rolling out uh geo models in coming stars here, uh and we'll have a support of three dimensional geological models. So the next logical step would be to add support of seismic, and once we have the support of seismic for sure as a If you're physicist by education, I want to do something with that seismic. But uh it's probably as as of today, it's mostly waving the air, uh instead of uh just um you know uh yeah uh waving the hands instead of just uh saying that we have something. Yes, as of today we don't. Uh eventually

[Speaker 1|4040.1]
probably we will. Yeah, and I mean uh for for for for for for for for for for for sure this is something that it it's uh it's it's less frequently requested now than it used to be. uh but just bring me the the the the the the the the the the ability to deal with seismic within star scares more than a jpeg is something that's been requested so uh that would be if if if if if if if if if if if we moved into that direction that would be a massive addition and then i i i i i i i i i i i guess there'd be no need for any competitors after that we could just everybody else could just go home

[Speaker 2|4068.6]
seismic uh i mean gylan if you think of seismic it it is still there right uh permian is very well covered with3D seismic you'll go for it very well covered with3D seismic uh same with Willison base And DJ Basin. So it's it's it's there, it's used, it's used for GST urine, all other things. So it's very much needed technology. Now uh Chao Shun uh

[Speaker 1|4091.6]
asked again he was he was wondering if you could speak about the connection between slide six and seven. Uh so six is the stretch and squeeze add noise in the vertical part of the well, uh, and seven is the um correlation panel. So

[Speaker 2|4107.6]
uh uh six is uh how and seven is basically why uh so six is how we uh how we uh build uh learning uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh how we build data sets to teach uh neural network how to correlate uh wells with each other as I as I said before we basically take an uh original log we add noise and bunch of you know problems and scale changes And all kinds of things to that log, and we use these two pairs of the log to train uh neural network. And then once it's trained, we use the actual data, and this is the actual data, actual typewell, actual lateral well, and then we correlate uh basically piece by piece. Uh take a small piece of this lateral well, correlate it with all possible pieces of the typewell, and once the correlation is good, according to the neural network output, once the correlation is good. We put sort of a red dot. If it's bad, we put a blue dot. So then uh you basically can draw this uh two dimensional image with the red line will correspond to the best correlation between both of those uh well lock. And uh once we have it, uh we can basically say that yes, this particular gamma array thing, gamma array spike correlates. it with that particular gamma rate spike and once we go to the correlation panel we can just correlate we can say okay this well top uh find me the same well top on the other wall and we can just correlate it uh well well well well well well well well well well well to wow as I said this aut auto correlation functionality is not in star theory yet but for sure it will be there soon uh we have the what you're

[Speaker 1|4225.9]
updating I'm sorry about that uh actually Igor could you back once the the the slide so we can look at spectrum again and so for those of you guys who don't know um that uh that that image you're seeing there uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh where we're talking about the red and the blue dots this is actually something that's part of the assisted geo steering package that's called spectrum and it it it's something that I am a huge fan of because not only is it visually showing you what the assisted geostering tool is doing but it is a way for you to see on a single two dimensional display all of the potential interpretations So frequently as a geo steer, I feel good if I'm keeping three to four interpretations alive. But the AG tool is looking at thousands and thousands of different possibilities. And so I can just visually look at that. And if I happen to see one, even if it isn't the one AG particularly likes, it's letting me see this is all the options I should be looking at. So I might just make a copy of my interpretation and just manually make an interpretation that doesn't necessarily align with what AG thinks or what I think, but it's just another possibility. So it's a great way to be able to bring that whole package uh the human and the computer together um now our very own Steven Clark has a question he says could you envision machine learning AI being able to identify sequence stratigraphy relationships in logs more simply could it deal with lateral stratigraphic

[Speaker 2|4304.9]
variability potentially yes but uh I guess the question here is more uh is more into so machine learning is As good as uh as good as you good your training data set is, right? So if you train a data set is having those issues uh and uh it has you know the wild ops or you know it was correlated properly. If you can train your data uh using that data set, if the training result is good, then yes, yes, we can do it. You know, we can recognize faces as long as we have uh a few billion faces and their names associated with them. That's why nobody else but Facebook can recognize faces uh Simply because they have the data, our data, right? Yo,

[Speaker 1|4355.5]
Facebook, the social dilemma. Um, okay. Well, I I uh do we have any more questions? I don't have any more listed here, but if anybody has some last questions while we have Igor here, uh go ahead and put them out there and I'll read them to him. Uh in the meantime, we will be uh, of course, having a webinar next month. We are looking to have Star Stereo2020. Uh are we expecting that in the next month, Igor, when do we think we think that will hit? Uh it's

[Speaker 2|4383.3]
probably, I mean, we'll be able to show it, but I would prefer to do it

[Speaker 1|4387.0]
the months after. Okay. So uh check well, I mean we'll have a we'll have a third Thursday webinar, of course, in March. Uh we'll also have one in April, and that April one will be going over the new release2021.1. Um let's see here. Oh, nope, that's the same question. So I think that's the end of it. Uh Igor, thanks very much for joining us. And um, we'll bring you back the next. Next time we have something highly technical for you to speak on. Thank

[Speaker 2|4414.4]
you, Dila. Thank you all for participating. Have a great

[Speaker 1|4417.5]
day. Yep, you too, Aaron. Thank you.